40 Undergraduate Course Descriptions
College of Art and DesignPHPJ-523 Leadership in Creative Spaces
This course is designed for students from a variety of educational backgrounds, and will explore 
leadership skills required in collaborative, contemporary, and dynamic professional environ -
ments. Course content will cover the intersection and divergence of management and leadership 
concepts using large group discussions, small group activities, and self-reflective exercises. 
Students will identify their own personal leadership strengths and goals and develop manage -
ment strategies used in modern business environments. Students will also incorporate ways 
to succeed in progressively challenging roles and learn methods for fostering inclusive envi -
ronments. At the completion of this course, students will be able to leverage their personal and 
professional networks to create a diverse community of peers and collaborative partnerships 
that will lead to innovative work.  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
Photo Visual Media
PHVM-301 Visual Media Career Research
This course will introduce students to the practical methods for researching possible careers 
and opportunities after graduation. Using Internet and library research, students will iden -
tify a career field that might interest them. Further investigations will focus on the realities of 
working in that environment so that further decisions can be made leading to that career. This 
course is required for all 3rd year Visual Media majors. (Prerequisite:  PHAR-204 or equivalent 
course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHVM-350 Topics in Visual Media
Photography (and photographic education) is in a perpetual state of flux due to constant 
changes in practices and technology. Topics in visual media will provide students with the 
opportunity to explore this shifting terrain of photography and imaging. The content taught 
in this course will change frequently and the course may be repeated for credit, however each 
particular topic may have limits on repeatability. (Prerequisite:  Successful completion of two 
of the following courses is required PHAR-201, PHAR-202, PHAR-203 or PHAR-204.)  Lecture 
3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
PHVM-351 Studio Topics in Visual Media
Photography (and photographic education) is in a perpetual state of flux due to constant chang -
es in practices and technology. Studio Topics in Visual Media will provide students with the 
opportunity to explore studio applications in this shifting terrain of photography and imaging 
as applied to business and the graphic arts. The content taught in this course will change each 
frequently and the course may be repeated for credit, however each particular topic may have 
limits on repeatability. (Prerequisite:  Successful completion of two of the following courses 
is required PHAR-201, PHAR-202, PHAR-203 or PHAR-204.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 
(Fall, Spring)
PHVM-368 Visual Media Innovation Project
This course will challenge students to create novel visual media experiences using existing and 
emerging photographic and media technologies. Students may develop their work in part -
nership with individuals and organizations with interesting stories to tell or content to share 
with the public. Students will be taught how to make formal proposals for projects including 
workflows, timelines, and budgets. Students may work individually or in teams, depending on 
the scope and nature of their project. Final projects will be showcased at the end of the term. 
(Prerequisite:  Successful completion of two of the following courses is required PHAR-201, 
PHAR-202, PHAR-203 or PHAR-204.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHVM-401 Visual Media Capstone
This course is the second required for all 4th year students in visual media and is the last 
required course in the curriculum. Students will be finalize their career preparation in anticipa -
tion of entry into the industry of choice. This course will require a major media project, allowing 
students to create a package/portfolio that represents their photographic, design, printing and 
management skills. (This course is restricted to PHIMAG-BFA, VISMED-BFA, PHVMEDIA or 
PHITLL-BFA students who have completed First-Year Writing.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
Photographic and Imaging Technologies
Imaging Systems
IMSM-301 Imaging Systems
This course will explore the technological fundamentals used in imaging systems. The 
course emphasizes the operation of devices/components used to optimize imaging systems. 
Fundamental concepts prevalent in imaging systems such as resolution, dynamic range, sensor 
architectures, printer and monitor technologies, color spaces, and image optimization work -
flows will be presented. Focus will be on the proper selection and underlying principles of these 
technologies and how to best apply that knowledge to solve problems in the imaging industry. 
Potential careers in the imaging industry will be presented throughout the course. (Prerequisite: 
PHPS-107 or SOFA-103 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)IMSM-302 Color Management Technology
This course, primarily designed for photographers, will provide students with hands on expe -
rience using software and hardware fundamental to contemporary practices in the imaging 
industry. It has been designed to expose students to a managed color workflow beginning at 
capture and culminating in output. The course will explore standard color instruments and give 
the essential knowledge and skills required to solve problems prevalent in the photographic 
field. Critical problem solving of accurate color reproduction across media will be investi -
gated. (Prerequisites: IMSM-301 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Spring)
Biomedical Photography
Photographic Sciences
PHPS-101 Photography I
This course is the first of a two-semester sequence exploring the fundamentals of photography, 
with emphasis on the development of strong photographic skills as they relate to the princi -
ples of DSLR cameras, lenses, choosing and using perspective, lighting and related aspects of 
photographic skills. Principles of creativity, craftsmanship, applied photographic theory and 
presentation will be used to solve visual communication problems. (This course is restricted 
to students in PHIMTEC-BS.)  Critique 3, Lecture 1, Lab 3, Credits 4 (Fall)
PHPS-101 Photography I
This course is the first of a two-semester sequence exploring the fundamentals of photography, 
with emphasis on the development of strong photographic skills as they relate to the princi -
ples of DSLR cameras, lenses, choosing and using perspective, lighting and related aspects of 
photographic skills. Principles of creativity, craftsmanship, applied photographic theory and 
presentation will be used to solve visual communication problems. (This course is restricted 
to students in PHIMTEC-BS.)  Critique 3, Lecture 1, Lab 3, Credits 4 (Fall)
PHPS-102 Photography II
This course is the second of a two-semester sequence of study further enhancing photograph -
ic practices. Emphasis is on improving photographic skills learned in Photography I. Skills 
include studio lighting, lighting on location, and macro photography. Principles of creativity, 
craftsmanship, and applied photographic theory will be used to support technical applica -
tions. (Prerequisites: PHPS-101 or PHAR-101 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Studio 3, Lecture 
2, Credits 4 (Spring, Summer)
PHPS-102 Photography II
This course is the second of a two-semester sequence of study further enhancing photograph -
ic practices. Emphasis is on improving photographic skills learned in Photography I. Skills 
include studio lighting, lighting on location, and macro photography. Principles of creativity, 
craftsmanship, and applied photographic theory will be used to support technical applica -
tions. (Prerequisites: PHPS-101 or PHAR-101 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Studio 3, Lecture 
2, Credits 4 (Spring, Summer)
PHPS-106 Photographic Science Fundamentals
The course Photographic Science Fundamentals will introduce the application of physics, math -
ematics, and optical science behind the processes of photography. The course also provides 
the students with the opportunity to employ statistical data analysis to identify trends through 
laboratory exercises utilizing principles of scientific inquiry.  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-107 Photographic Technology II
This is the second course in a two-semester course based in the study of the technology of 
photography, with emphasis on applications to real world photographic problems. Among the 
topics studied will include color vision, Munsell color system, CIELAB system, color theory, 
color management, digital color balance during post-processing, digital tone reproduction, and 
digital workflows. (Prerequisite:  PHPS-106 or equivalent course.)  Lab 2, Lecture 2, Credits 
3 (Spring)
PHPS-201 Scientific Photography I
The first course of a two-semester sequence that will develop photographic skills and approach -
es required in scientific photography. The course will develop scientific methods required for 
standardized imaging. Appropriate subjects including contact lenses, rice grains and other 
challenging, nearly invisible objects will be explored. Students will investigate unique illumi -
nation techniques in order to reveal a subject’s unusual characteristics. Techniques including 
polarized light and fluorescence reveal what cannot easily be observed without specialized 
photographic imaging and image processing. In addition, the course will expose students to 
ethical problems encountered in scientific imaging including managing and processing digi -
tal data. (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 or PHAR-102 or PHAR-161 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, 
Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall) Undergraduate Course Descriptions  41
College of Art and DesignPHPS-202 Scientific Photography II
This is the second course in a two-semester sequence that explores new and different pho -
tographic skills and methods useful in scientific photography not covered in Scientific 
Photography I. Appropriate subjects will be explored in each of the various assignments 
designed to develop methods used in various scientific applications. Students will investigate 
new ways to reveal a subject's characteristics such as imaging with ultraviolet and infrared 
revealing what cannot be observed without photographic imaging and image processing. The 
course will expose students to the processes required to produce scientific research as well as 
scientific posters. (Prerequisites: PHPS-201 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 
3 (Spring)
PHPS-207 Vision, Perception and Imaging
This course will explore the anatomical structure, function, and physiology of the human eye 
and brain and their relationship to vision, color, visual perception and imaging systems. The 
biology and physiology of the eye and psychology of visual perception will be explored. The 
concepts of depth perception in human vision as they relate to both two-dimensional and three-
dimensional contexts will be examined. Relationships of image brightness, contrast and how 
visual processes lead to seeing will be addressed.  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-211 Photographic Optics
This required course will investigate advanced photographic technology, with an emphasis 
on the study of the components of photographic imaging systems. Geometrical optics, color 
management, printing technologies and video standards will also be studied. Working in a 
lab environment, students will evaluate how technology can be optimized and where its limi -
tations might be found. (Prerequisites: PHPS-107 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, 
Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-217 Media Production & Technology
Media Technology explores the design, production and delivery of instructional media and 
marketing materials used in various industries. Students will plan and produce the content for 
media projects that integrate video, audio, still images, interactivity, two-dimensional anima -
tion and video. The course also explores the technology and production techniques involved 
in delivering digital content today. Additionally, the course will provide an introduction to 
basic instructional technology concepts that influence design, development and assessment 
decisions. The focus of classwork will be the production of media used in support of train -
ing and marketing activities commonly found in corporate, governmental, industrial, and 
scientific communities. (Prerequisites:  FDTN-141 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, 
Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-261 Intro to Special Effects Photography
This course will explore various photographic techniques to create special or “trick” image 
effects, especially geared toward non-photo program students. The course will provide unique 
perspectives on using camera behaviors, optical principles or modified equipment as reality-
altering tools. For example the role of a camera shutter for double exposures, long exposures, 
and light painting. Students will be given the opportunity to produce their own “trick” pho -
tographs, and will be introduced to the role of image manipulation programs and the use of 
software to create realistic yet unreal, ethereal image effects, such as floating people or objects. 
The course will also cover the history and practice of these techniques. The presentation and 
perception of images as reality on social media platforms will be an ongoing theme in the class. 
The use/application of AI, Sensi that is involved in manipulating photographic images will be 
analyzed and explored cell phone cameras will be used to execute the majority of class assign -
ments. **Fee: A course fee is applied via student account.** (This course is available to RIT 
degree-seeking undergraduate students.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-277 Survey of Non-Conventional Imaging
This course will provide an overview of imaging methods and imaging systems including 
principles of photographic surveying, mapping photogrammetry and aerial photography, pho -
tofinish photography, panoramic photography, peripheral photography, scanning imaging, 
infrared/ultraviolet photography, three-dimensional imaging including lenticular photogra -
phy and alternative imaging such as schlieren, thermography, electrophotography and other 
specialized applications. Topics may vary from year to year allowing for the introduction of 
newly developing applications and systems.  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-303 Nature and Natural Sciences Photography
This practical photography course will teach students how to apply scientific, technical and 
graphic imaging principles to optimize their natural science photography in the field, lab or 
studio. Students will produce publication-quality images using conventional and close-up 
lenses, scanners, artificial light sources (flash and flashlights), ambient light modifiers such 
as diffusers and tenting while documenting specimens in both the field and lab. Students will 
utilize post-production software and learn the constraints and ethics of image manipulation 
in natural science communication/publication. Students will photograph as their schedules 
permit and are encouraged to participate in volunteer field trips. (Prerequisites:  PHPS-202 or 
PHAR-161 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)PHPS-307 Surgical Photography
This course, a collaboration between RIT & Rochester Regional Health, will introduce stu -
dents to the issues and methods used in contemporary surgical photography. Students will be 
exposed to the fundamental photographic equipment and procedures used in operating rooms 
including proper file management in this era of HIPAA regulations. At the end of the course, 
students will have visited the surgery theater at least three times with the objective of making 
photographs. This course can be repeated.  Lecture 1, Credits 1 (Fall)
PHPS-321 Underwater Digital Photography
This course is to prepare students for photographic assignments in an underwater environ -
ment. To accomplish this, students will complete basic scuba diving training and achieve a 
Professional Association of Dive Instructors (PADI) scuba diving certification. Through this 
course student will become familiar with basic shooting techniques, underwater photography 
camera housings, accessories, and equipment care and maintenance. There is an additional 
course fee that covers equipment, off campus facilities and insurance. (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 
or PHAR-102 or PHAR-161 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall, Summer)
PHPS-322 Advanced Diving and Underwater Imaging
Students will develop underwater research skills, photo-documentation skills, underwater 
lighting techniques, camera positioning, working with a model, and working as a member of 
an interdisciplinary team. This course prepares students to complete a marine photographic 
project in an underwater environment. Students will as part of this course complete the PADI 
Advanced Diving Course and the Enriched Air Specialty Course. The project will take place 
in the Caribbean as part of a multidisciplinary experience. The final project will be a research 
paper and multimedia presentation. There is an additional cost for the study abroad class. 
(Prerequisites: PHPS-321 or equivalent course and minimum of 2nd year standing.)  Lab 3, 
Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
PHPS-323 Advanced Diving and Underwater Imaging II
Students who enroll will develop skills to have the knowledge needed to incorporate photog -
raphy, videography or the ability to conduct research as well as develop problem-solving skills 
in underwater environments when working as a member of, or leading, an interdisciplinary 
team. The course will provide students repeating the experience with mentorship and dive lead 
opportunities as well as the opportunity to acquire additional advanced diving certifications. 
Students will be required to demonstrate advanced dive planning and management skills for 
a group of divers. Students will also complete an individual marine photographic project in an 
underwater environment. The project will take place in the Caribbean as part of a multidisci -
plinary experience. There is an additional cost for the study abroad class. This class is repeatable. 
(Prerequisites: PHPS-322 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
PHPS-326 Applied Color Theory
This course investigates the principles of color science including theory and application. Topics 
include CIE colorimetry, color transformations, color order systems, metamerism, color incon -
stancy, color tolerance equations and spaces. (Prerequisite: PHPS-331 or equivalent course.)  
Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-328 Photographic Sciences Bulletin
This course will introduce students to the production of an electronic magazine, containing 
content and activities relevant to the Photographic Sciences curriculum. The award-winning 
BPC Bulletin was first published in 1987. Each issue, one produced per semester, will require 
student editors to develop and create content - both written and photographic - and design 
an appropriate production schedule including electronic workflow and designation of group 
and individual responsibilities. Students will design and market the magazine using contem -
porary tools, working closely with internal and external resources to maximize the quality of 
the content and the dissemination of the electronic publication. (This class is restricted to stu -
dents with PHIMTEC-BS or PHIMAG-BFA and at least 3rd year student standing.)  Lecture 
3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
PHPS-331 Programming for Photographic Sciences
This course will introduce students to programming as a data visualization tool and a program -
ming language (Python). Students will learn the various capabilities of the language and how 
it can be used to rapidly prototype solutions to various imaging-related problems. As these 
solutions are developed, fundamental concepts of programming and data structures will be 
introduced. (Prerequisite: PHPS-211 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-332 Digital Image Processing
This course covers the principles and fundamental techniques in writing digital image pro -
cessing algorithms and computer programming techniques that are used in implementing said 
algorithms. Topics covered will include color space transformations, basic image manipula -
tion, and spatial and frequency manipulations. (Prerequisite: PHPS-331 or equivalent course.)  
Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)42 Undergraduate Course Descriptions
College of Art and DesignPHPS-336 e-Sensitometry
This course provides students with immersive experiences investigating the design of imag -
ing systems and related technology with an emphasis on device characterization and image 
quality metrics and standards. Input and output standards including photographic and video 
systems will be covered in detail. Additionally, the course will explore measurable and subjec -
tive evaluations required for image quality. (Prerequisite:  PHPS-106 or equivalent course.)  
Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-337 Color Measurement
This is the second in a two-course required imaging core sequence, the first being Applied 
Color Theory. Students develop the background and skills required for successful laboratory 
practice in color measurement as used in scientific research. This includes data management, 
data analysis, and technical writing. Topics include the optical and electronic design of spectro -
radiometric and spectrophotometric instrumentation, the use of standard reference materials 
for calibration, data analysis techniques, properties of objects and radiation, evaluation of 
instrumentation and psychophysical experimentation. (Prerequisite: PHPS-211 or equivalent 
course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-350 Topics in Photographic Sciences
The photographic sciences and its educational offerings are in a constant state of growth due to 
rapid changes in technological applications and capabilities. Topics in Photography will pro -
vide students with the opportunity to explore this shifting terrain of photographic imaging. 
The content taught in this course will change frequently and the course may be repeated for 
credit, however each particular topic may have limits on repeatability. (Prerequisites: PHPS-
202 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
PHPS-351 Studio Topics in Photographic Sciences
The photographic sciences and its educational offerings are in a constant state of growth due 
to rapid changes in technological applications and capabilities. Studio Topics in Photographic 
Sciences will provide students with the opportunity to explore laboratory applications in this 
shifting terrain of photographic imaging. The content taught in this course will change fre -
quently and the course may be repeated for credit, however each particular topic may have 
limits on repeatability. (Prerequisites: PHPS-202 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, 
Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
PHPS-401 Photographic Sciences Capstone I
This course is the first of a two-term sequence designed to begin work on a major student proj -
ect. The topic will relate to an aspect of the photographic sciences, including but not limited 
to photomicrography, image testing and quality, ophthalmic imaging, color, or other relevant 
topics. In this course, students will conceive and design a long-term project or experiment, 
including a proposal, description, goals, timeline, resources, and funding (if necessary). The 
student will work to construct and refine the proposal, and will identify a faculty advisor if 
needed for the execution of the project in PS Capstone II. The class sessions will focus on proj -
ect planning and provide in-progress discussion of proposals. The project will be completed 
during the second semester (PHPS 402 – Photographic Sciences Capstone II). Projects will be 
student initiated within an individual’s area of expertise. Completed projects will constitute a 
substantial portfolio/professional project. (Prerequisites: PHPS-202 or equivalent course and 
completion of First Year Writing (FYW) requirement.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-403 Photographic Sciences Capstone II
Students will execute a major project proposed in the first course of the sequence: PS Capstone 
I. Projects may address subjects related to the photographic sciences or other relevant topics. 
Students will provide a progress report to the course coordinator at set intervals. Class will 
meet weekly to provide discussion and feedback on individual projects. (Prerequisite:  PHPS-
401 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-498 Photography Internship
The photography internship will provide students with the option to work in the photographic 
or visual communications field. Students may apply for internships to businesses based on the 
availability of positions and business job needs. Students must obtain permission of an instruc -
tor and complete the Internship Permission Form to enroll. **Note: No more than 6 credits 
of internships can be applied towards their degree** (This course is restricted to students in 
PHIMTEC-BS.)  Internship, Credits 1 - 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
PHPS-499 Photographic Sciences Co-op
Cooperative Education will provide photographic and imaging technologies students with 
hands-on experience in their field, directly related to a student’s major with an established 
studio or related business. Students will need to apply for co-ops, and interview as part of the 
selection process, based on available positions posted by the Co-op and Career Services Office, 
or found through the students’ own research. In programs where co-op is a degree requirement, 
students must obtain permission of their program or graduate director prior to enrollment. 
Co-ops are typically paid work experience, and can be part-time (150-479 total hours within 
the term), or full-time (480+ hours within the term). Co-ops may be one or two consecutive 
terms - fall, spring, or summer – with department permission. (This course is restricted to 
students in PHIMTEC-BS.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Fall, Spring, Summer)PHPS-516 Scanning Electron Microscopy
This course is designed to teach students how to operate and create images with a scanning 
electron microscope. Emphasis is on the understanding and optimization of the instrumental 
and photographic parameters associated with the SEM. A final poster is produced that exam -
ines and documents a single sample. (Prerequisites: PHPS-202 or equivalent course.)  Lab 4, 
Lecture 1, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-529 High Speed Photography
This course will investigate the theory and applications of photographic systems designed 
to record events of very short duration. Images will be analyzed to gain a more complete 
understanding of short duration events, including deriving data. The course will include the 
comparisons of the characteristics of digital video cameras, sequencing and timing control 
devices, as well as time magnification relationships. Synchronization systems, timing controls 
and high-speed flash and stroboscopic systems will also be covered. Introduction to high-
speed video recording, the introduction to shadowgraph and Schlieren imaging systems will 
be included. Students will be introduced to programmable microprocessors for control of 
high-speed photographic equipment, and will gain experiences in the operation of equipment 
as well as proper planning, setup and basic data reduction techniques. **Fee: This course has 
a facilities fee for Non-SPAS students** (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 or PHAR-102 or PHAR-161 
or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-539 Photographic Instrumentation
The potential to create or modify photographic instrumentation for specific purposes has 
never been greater, due to the advancement of photographic technologies coinciding with 
an increased maker movement. This course will provide students with experience in design -
ing, testing, and building devices for use in technical photographic applications. Students will 
gain experience extracting data from images and/or using images as a source of measurement. 
Projects will change each semester based on evolving technologies. Examples might include 
using microprocessors to control cameras, the creation of high-speed infrared triggering sys -
tems, or building of dedicated specialized LED illumination systems for use in the infrared 
or ultraviolet imaging. (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 or PHAR-102 or PHAR-161 or equivalent 
course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-541 Photomacrography: the Magnified image from 1x to 20x
This course will include specialized camera and illumination techniques required to produce 
photographs of the unseen world utilizing high magnification. Images will be made in the 
magnification range of 1:1 – 20:1 (at capture) using various types of camera systems. Lighting, 
applied optics, subject management techniques as well as extended depth of field methods will 
be evaluated in theory and practice. Hardware and software solutions, such as focus stacking, 
will be explored and applied to contend with the unique challenges of photographing under 
high magnification. **Fee: A facilities fee for non- SPAS and non-SOFA students is required for 
this course, in addition to materials fees.** (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 or PHAR-102 or PHAR-
161 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall)
PHPS-542 Photomicrography
The microscope has proven itself to be an important tool for investigation since its invention 
in 1595. This course is designed to explore how to create magnified images of objects too small 
to be seen with the naked eye. Students will use a variety of microscopy techniques including 
differential interference contrast, fluorescence, phase contrast, reflected light, industrial, and 
polarized light. The course will investigate the applications of optical and digital enhancement 
techniques. Specimen preparation as well as electronic flash will be used to create stop-motion 
video. Assignments will allow students to devise appropriate photomicrographic approaches 
based on the data and intended use of the images. (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 or PHAR-102 or 
PHAR-161 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-546 Ophthalmic Imaging I
This is the first of a two-course series designed to investigate proper patient management 
and camera/photographic techniques required in contemporary ophthalmic photography and 
imaging. Diagnostic evaluation of ocular anatomy and physiology utilizing special cameras/
equipment is examined and practiced. In addition to retinal fundus photography, students will 
demonstrate diagnostic medical imaging techniques such as fluorescein angiography, fundus 
autofluorescence, optical coherence tomography and scanning laser ophthalmoscopy. Retinal 
disease processes and recognition will also be combined with a working knowledge of ocular 
anatomy and physiology. The completion of this course and Ophthalmic Imaging II provide 
one year of residency credit toward the Ophthalmic Photographer’s Society’s professional cer -
tifications (Certified Retinal Angiographer and Optical Coherence Tomographer). ** Fee: A 
fee for an ocular exam is required**. (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 or PHAR-102 or PHAR-161 or 
equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Fall) Undergraduate Course Descriptions  43
College of Art and DesignPHPS-547 Ophthalmic Imaging II
This course will integrate advanced ophthalmic imaging techniques with disease identification 
and proper patient management required in contemporary ophthalmic clinical environments. 
Diagnostic evaluation of ocular anatomy and physiology utilizing special cameras/equipment 
is presented. Ophthalmological disease processes and recognition will also be emphasized. 
Advanced ophthalmological imaging modalities will be explored, including OCT-A, slit lamp 
biomicrography and fundus autofluorescence. **Note: A clinical component is required of stu -
dents enrolled in this course** (Prerequisite: PHPS-546 or equivalent course.)  Lab 3, Lecture 
2, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-563 Forensic Photography
Proper documentation of crime scenes and evidence is extremely important in the investigation 
of crimes by police agencies and forensic labs. This course will provide hands-on experience 
documenting crime scenes and related evidence. Students will learn how to prepare images for 
presentation in court. Topics covered will include crime scene management, evidence handling, 
crime scene documentation, general evidence documentation, photographic techniques for the 
enhancement of evidence, and court display preparation. This is a blended course, with lectures 
delivered online and two in-person Saturday lab sessions. (Prerequisites: PHPS-102 or PHAR-
102 or PHAR-161 or equivalent course.)  Lab 1, Lecture 2, Credits 3 (Spring)
PHPS-599 Photography Independent Study
Photography independent study will provide students with the ability to study in a special -
ized area with an individual faculty member. Students, with the assistance of a faculty adviser 
will propose a course of study. Photography Independent Study students must obtain per -
mission of an instructor and complete the Independent Study Permission Form to enroll. 
**Note: Students can only earn up to 6 credits of independent study towards completion of 
their degree** (This course is restricted to students in PHIMTEC-BS.)  Ind Study, Credits 1 
- 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)44 Undergraduate Course Descriptions
Saunders College of BusinessSaunders College of Business
Index
ACCT Accounting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
BANA Business Analytics   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
BLEG Business Legal Studies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
DECS Decision Sciences   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
FINC Finance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
HSPT Hospitality and Tourism Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
HRDE Human Resource Development   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
INTB International Business   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
MGIS Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
MGMT Management Information Systems   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
MKTG Marketing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
SERQ Service Quality   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Course numbering: RIT courses are generally referred to by their alphanumeric registration 
label. The four alpha characters indicate the discipline within the college. The final three digits 
are unique to each course and identify whether the course is noncredit (less than 099), lower divi -
sion (100-299), upper division (300-599), or graduate level (600 and above).
Unless otherwise noted, the following courses are offered annually. Specific times and dates can 
be found in each semester's schedule of courses. Prerequisites/corequisites are noted in parenthe -
ses near the end of the course description.
Accounting
ACCT-110 Financial Accounting
An introduction to the way in which corporations report their financial performance to inter -
ested stakeholders such as investors and creditors. Coverage of the accounting cycle, generally 
accepted accounting principles, and analytical tools help students become informed users of 
financial statements. (This course is available to RIT degree-seeking undergraduate students.)  
Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
ACCT-210 Management Accounting
Introduction to the use of accounting information by managers within a business. Explores 
the value of accounting information for the planning and controlling of operations, assessing 
the cost of a product/service, evaluating the performance of managers, and strategic decision 
making. (Prerequisites: ACCT-110 or NACC-205 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 
(Fall, Spring, Summer)
ACCT-305 Accounting Profession
This course consists of a series of workshops designed to introduce accounting students to the 
skills needed to be successful in job and co-op searches and the transition into professional 
life and careers. Students will establish their career goals, create relevant documents such as 
resumes and cover letters, and develop skills needed to succeed in pursuing accounting posi -
tions or graduate school. Students will be expected to interact with business professionals, study 
materials related to current and emerging trends in accounting and business, and develop pro -
fessional deportment. Active class participation is required. Note: Matriculated in Saunders 
undergraduate accounting program. (Prerequisites:  This class is restricted to students with at 
least 2nd year standing in ACCT-BS program.Co-requisite:  ACCT-360 or equivalent course.)  
Lecture 1, Credits 1 (Fall)
ACCT-360 Intermediate Financial Accounting I
Extensive exposure to the accounting cycle with full integration of the data flow in an account -
ing information system. Accounting theory developed by accounting standard-setting bodies is 
covered in-depth. Generally accepted accounting principles are discussed as they apply to the 
preparation of financial statements and the recognition and measurement of financial state -
ment elements, primarily assets. International Financial Reporting Standards are introduced 
as they relate to course subject matter. (Prerequisites: ACCT-210 or NACC-206 or equivalent 
course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)
ACCT-365 Intermediate Financial Accounting II
In-depth consideration of generally accepted accounting principles and theory as they apply 
to the recognition and measurement of common liabilities and stockholders’ equity, as well 
as income taxes, pensions and leases. Issues related to dilutive securities, earnings per share, 
accounting changes, revenue recognition, and the statement of cash flows are also addressed. 
International Financial Reporting Standards are introduced as they relate to course subject 
matter. (Prerequisites: ACCT-360 or 0101-408 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 
(Fall, Spring)ACCT-399 Accounting PT Co-op
Half semester of paid work experience in accounting. (This class is restricted to undergraduate 
students with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
ACCT-420 Personal and Small Business Taxation
A basic introductory course in federal income taxation. Emphasis is on taxation of individuals 
and sole proprietorships. Topics include income measurement and deductibility of personal 
and business expenses.  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
ACCT-430 Cost Accounting
Intermediate-level coverage of operational budgeting and performance evaluation. 
Development and use of cost data for external reporting and internal planning and control. 
Topics include operational budgeting, performance evaluation, job costing, process costing, 
joint product, and by-product costing, service department cost allocation, standard costing, 
activity-based costing, back-flush costing, and transfer pricing. Development of relevant cost 
information for special purposes is also considered. (Prerequisites: ACCT-210 or NACC-206 
or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
ACCT-440 Advanced Taxation
Emphasis is on tax treatment of property transactions and taxation of business entities. Also 
covers the use of technology to prepare complex returns and to research tax issues.  Lecture 
3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
ACCT-445 Accounting Information Systems
This course combines information systems concepts and accounting issues. In this course, 
we discuss the conceptual foundations of information systems, their applications, the con -
trol and auditing of accounting information systems, and the system development process. 
Topics include the business process, e-business, relational database, database design, computer 
fraud and security, accounting cycle, system analysis and AIS development strategies. Students 
analyze accounting information systems topics through problem solving, group project, pre -
sentations, exams, and case studies. (Prerequisites: ACCT-110 or NACC-205 or equivalent 
course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
ACCT-488 Accounting Co-op Summer
One summer semester of paid work experience in accounting. (This class is restricted to under -
graduate students with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Summer)
ACCT-489 Seminar in Accounting
Study of accounting topics reflecting contemporary issues and/or current technological 
advancements impacting the development, implementation and management of account -
ing, taxation, and auditing systems in organizations. Seminar topics have ranged from ethics 
to computerized accounting systems. Topics for a specific semester will be agreed to prior to 
the course offering. (Prerequisites: ACCT-210 or NACC-206 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, 
Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
ACCT-490 Auditing
A study of the legal, ethical, and technical environment in which the auditor works. Current 
auditing theory, standards, procedures, and techniques are studied. The audit process is stud -
ied to ascertain how it leads to the development of an audit opinion. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
and internal control issues are examined. Students are also introduced to accountants’ pro -
fessional responsibility. (Prerequisites: ACCT-365 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 
3 (Fall, Spring)
ACCT-499 Accounting Co-op
One semester of paid work experience in accounting. (This class is restricted to undergraduate 
students with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
ACCT-500 Cost Management in Technical Organizations
A first course in accounting for students in technical disciplines. Topics include the distinction 
between external and internal accounting, cost behavior, product costing, profitability anal -
ysis, performance evaluation, capital budgeting, and transfer pricing. Emphasis is on issues 
encountered in technology-intensive manufacturing organizations. This course is not available 
for Saunders College of Business students. (This class is restricted to undergraduate students 
with at least 3rd year standing.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
ACCT-510 Internal Auditing
Course explores the role of the internal audit function in the management of companies. Topics 
include internal vs. external auditing, internal control issues, reliability and integrity of infor -
mation; compliance with policies, procedures, laws and regulations; efficiency of operations. 
Ethical considerations affecting the internal audit function are introduced. (Prerequisites: 
ACCT-210 or NACC-206 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall) Undergraduate Course Descriptions  45
Saunders College of BusinessACCT-550 Accounting for Government and Not-for-profit Organizations
This course provides a detailed examination and discussion of the accounting principles used 
by governmental and not-for-profit entities. The course focuses on the use of special funds for 
such entities as state and local governments, colleges and universities, hospitals and other health 
care entities, voluntary health and welfare organization, and other organizations. Students will 
learn what characterizes an entity as one for which the GASB is the authoritative standard-set -
ting body versus one for which the FASB is the authoritative standard-setting body and develop 
an understanding of why two unique sets of accounting principles were developed to serve 
these entities. (Prerequisites: ACCT-365 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
ACCT-560 Forensic Accounting and Fraud Examination
This course provides an introduction to the principles and methodologies of fraud detection 
and prevention. Topics may include the nature and types of fraud, fraud investigation and 
detection, financial statement fraud, consumer fraud, asset misappropriation, corruption, and 
tax evasion. (Prerequisites: ACCT-210 or NACC-206 or equivalent course and 3rd year stand -
ing.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)
ACCT-599 Independent Study Accounting
The student will work independently under the supervision of a faculty advisor.  Ind Study 3, 
Credits 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
Business Analytics
BANA-255 Data Literacy, Analytics, and Decision Making
This course serves as an introduction to the uses (and potential misuses) of data in a wide vari -
ety of social settings, including the exploration of contemporary techniques to analyze such 
data. Data acquisition, cleansing, management, analysis, and visualization will be addressed 
through hands-on projects. Project work will include contemporary social problems addressed 
using a dynamic set of resources and technologies. An emphasis will be placed on how insights 
gleaned from data analysis can be used to guide individual and group decision-making sce -
narios.  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
BANA-489 Seminar in Business Analytics
Special topics seminars offer an in-depth examination of current events, issues and problems 
unique to business analytics. Specific topics will vary depending upon student and faculty inter -
ests and on recent events in the business world. Seminar topics for a specific semester will be 
announced prior to the course offering. These seminars may be repeated for credit since top -
ics will normally vary from semester to semester. (instructor-determined)  Lecture 3, Credits 
3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
Business Legal Studies
BLEG-200 Business Law I
An introduction to legal principles and their relationship to business organizations. Explores 
the U.S. legal system, the U.S. court system, civil and criminal procedure, the role of govern -
ment agencies, legal research, and the substantive areas of law most relevant to business, 
including constitutional law, tort law, criminal law, contract law, intellectual property, debt -
or-creditor relations, bankruptcy, business entities, securities regulation, and antitrust law. 
(This course is available to RIT degree-seeking undergraduate students.)  Lecture 3, Credits 
3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
BLEG-250 Law, Business, and Society
This course provides an introductory survey of significant aspects of how select laws in the U.S. 
affect and are affected by society and commercial enterprises. The focus is on legal principles 
and societal considerations. Ethical issues in certain contexts will be discussed as well. Students 
will be introduced to basic legal research.  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
BLEG-300 Business Law II
Explores the impact of the Uniform Commercial Code and other substantive areas of law 
on business operations. Emphasis is on topics included on the certified public accounting 
exam, including provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code dealing with the sale and lease 
of goods, product warranties, commercial paper, negotiable instruments and secured trans -
actions. Other topics include business entities, creditors' rights, bankruptcy, environmental 
law, and insurance law. (Prerequisite: BLEG-200 or BLEG-250 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 
3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
BLEG-489 Seminar in  Business Law
Advanced study of business and legal topics reflecting contemporary issues and/or current tech -
nological advancements impacting the understanding of taxation, business, and legal issues 
in organizations. Seminar topics may range from international intellectual property rights to 
interactivity between taxation, law, and ethics. Topical coverage for a particular semester will 
be announced prior to the course offering. (This course requires permission of the Instructor 
to enroll.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)Decision Sciences
DECS-310 Operations Management
A survey of operations and supply chain management that relates to both service- and goods- 
producing organizations. Topics include operations and supply chain strategies; ethical 
behavior; forecasting; product and service design, including innovation and sustainability; 
capacity and inventory management; lean operations; managing projects; quality assurance; 
global supply chains; and the impacts of technology. (Prerequisites:  STAT-145 or MATH-251 
or equivalent courses.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
DECS-350 Project Management
A study of the concepts and applications of project management. This course covers the orga -
nization and management of projects, including the role and responsibilities of the project 
manager, team responsibilities, tools and techniques for project planning, budgeting, and con -
trol, work breakdown, risk assessment, and project termination. The learning environment will 
include lectures and discussion, group exercises, case studies, and examinations. (This class 
is restricted to undergraduate students with at least 3rd year standing.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3
DECS-399 Decision Sciences PT Co-op
Half semester of paid work experience in accounting. (This class is restricted to undergraduate 
students with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
DECS-435 Supply Chain Management Fundamentals
This course introduces the basic concepts in supply chain management fundamentals as well 
as strategies and practice, and examines important managerial issues. Topics covered include 
forecasting, inventory management, third-party logistics, partnering, contracts, event manage -
ment and conflict resolution, e-business, and strategy. (Prerequisites:  DECS-310 or equivalent 
course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3
DECS-445 Managing Supplier Relations
This course introduces students to the subject of managing supplier relations and purchasing 
activities. Topics covered include supplier selection, vendor pricing, materials quality control, 
value analysis, make-or-buy, speculation and hedging, and international sourcing as well as 
the legal and ethical constraints faced by purchasing practitioners. (This class is restricted to 
undergraduate students with at least 3rd year standing.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3
DECS-489 Seminar in Decision Science
Special topics seminars offer an indepth examination of current events, issues and problems 
unique to decision science. Specific topics will vary depending upon student and faculty inter -
ests and on recent events in the business world. Seminar topics for a specific semester will be 
announced prior to the course offering. These seminars may be repeated for credit since topics 
will normally vary from semester to semester. (This course is available to RIT degree-seeking 
undergraduate students.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3
DECS-499 Decision Science Co-op
One semester of paid work experience in decision science (This class is restricted to under -
graduate students with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
DECS-550 Supply Chain Management Capstone
In this course, students integrate the theoretical and practical skills they have acquired through -
out the curriculum to design and manage the source, make, plan, and deliver functions of 
a global supply chain using several SCM simulation packages. In addition, cases would be 
assigned for the students to analyze and write comprehensive reports. (Prerequisites: DECS-435 
and DECS-445 and INTB-315 or equivalent courses. This course is restricted to Undergraduate 
Saunders College of Business students.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
DECS-599 Independent Study Decision Sciences
The student will work independently under the supervision of a faculty adviser. (Instructor 
approval) (Enrollment in this course requires permission from the department offering the 
course.)  Ind Study 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
Finance
FINC-120 Personal Financial Management
Examines financial decisions people must make in their personal lives. Covers personal taxa -
tion, housing and mortgages, consumer credit, insurance (including life, health, property and 
casualty), and retirement and estate planning. Also reviews the common financial invest -
ments made by individuals, including stocks, bonds, money market instruments and mutual 
funds. This class involves extensive use of the internet for access to information. (Students 
in the Finance Program may use this course only as a free elective, not as a course creditable 
towards the Finance Program.) (This course is available to RIT degree-seeking undergraduate 
students.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)46 Undergraduate Course Descriptions
Saunders College of BusinessFINC-220 Financial Management
Basic course in financial management. Covers business organization, time value of money, 
valuation of securities, capital budgeting decision rules, risk-return relation, Capital Asset 
Pricing Model, financial ratios, global finance, and working capital management. (Prerequisites: 
(ECON-101 or ECON-201) and ACCT-110 and (STAT-145 or STAT-251 or CQAS-251 or 
MATH-251 or MATH-252 or STAT-205) or equivalent courses.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, 
Spring, Summer)
FINC-320 Professional Financial Planning and Management
Project-based course in which accounting and finance students develop an integrated under -
standing of personal financial planning and management. Topics include budgeting and cash 
flow, personal taxation (including basics of flow-through entities), mortgage financing and real 
estate, consumer credit, insurance (including life, health, property and casualty) and retire -
ment and estate planning. Also addresses financial investments made by individuals, including 
stocks, bonds, money market instruments and mutual funds. Emphasis is on understanding 
these topics as a financial professional, commensurate with undergraduate study in finance 
or accounting. (Prerequisites: ACCT-210 and FINC-220 or equivalent courses.)  Lecture 3, 
Credits 3 (Summer)
FINC-352 Financial Management II
Advanced course in financial management. Covers project cash-flow analysis, issuance of 
securities, cost of capital, debt policy, dividend policy, and market efficiency. (Prerequisites: 
FINC-220 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
FINC-361 Financial Institutions and Markets
This course provides a comprehensive survey of the major financial markets and institutions 
in the U.S. and abroad. This course analyzes the important structural features of the major 
markets and notes the interaction of the financial markets with the decisions of financial insti -
tutions, corporations, and the government. (Prerequisites: FINC-220 or equivalent course.)  
Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
FINC-362 Intermediate Investments
Focuses on the financial investment problems faced by individuals and institutions. Theoretical 
topics include asset pricing, hedging and arbitrage. Application topics include risk manage -
ment in bond-and-stock portfolio context. A discussion of options, futures and swaps also is 
included. (Prerequisites: FINC-220 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
FINC-399 Finance PT Co-op
Half semester of paid work experience in finance (This class is restricted to undergraduate stu -
dents with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
FINC-420 International Finance
Discusses the problems posed by the international financial environment in which corpora -
tions operate. In particular, students learn to quantify and manage risks arising from shifting 
exchange rates. Other topics include exchange rate systems, international trade finance, 
international capital budgeting, country risk analysis, and long-term international financing. 
(Prerequisites: FINC-220 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
FINC-425 Stock Market Algorithmic Trading
The course is a “hands-on” lab-based class designed to help students develop algorithmic trad -
ing strategies to invest in the stock market that can be implemented by retail and professional 
traders.The course has a strong emphasis on practical application with the purpose of build -
ing marketable skills for careers in finance. Students learn how to design algorithmic trading 
models through the use of a computerized trading platform that allows back-testing of data 
on thousands of different stocks. The software platform includes an automated wizard for 
building advanced technical trading models without programming knowledge; but also has 
an embedded programming language, similar to C-sharp, for those students that have those 
skills and elect to use them. (Knowledge of programming is not required; and there are no 
pre or co-requisites; but a laptop is strongly recommended.).  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
FINC-430 Advanced Corporate Financial Planning
This course focuses on strategic financial management of the corporation. It employs peda -
gogies that emphasize analysis and evaluation of applied financial problems. Topics include 
working capital management, financial statement analysis, valuation, capital budgeting deci -
sions, and risk management. (Prerequisites: FINC-352 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 
3 (Spring)
FINC-460 Financial Analysis and Modeling
In this course, students learn to obtain and organize financial data and conduct financial anal -
ysis such as discounted cash flow analysis, risk analysis and financial forecasting. Sources of 
data include web-based sources and proprietary databases. Excel will be the main software tool. 
(Prerequisites: FINC-352 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)FINC-470 Introduction to Options and Futures
This course explores risk management from the viewpoint of a finance professional. The pri -
mary tools used are derivative instruments including options, futures, forward and swaps. 
Students learn about the basic features of derivative instruments: how to value them, how 
they are traded, and how to use them to mitigate various types of financial risk. (Prerequisites: 
FINC-220 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
FINC-488 Finance Co-op Summer
One summer semester of paid work experience in finance. (This class is restricted to under -
graduate students with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Summer)
FINC-489 Seminar in Finance
Special topics seminars offer an in-depth examination of current events, issues and problems 
unique to finance. Specific topics will vary depending upon student and faculty interests and on 
recent events in the business world. Seminar topics for a specific semester will be announced 
prior to the course offering. These seminars may be repeated for credit since topics will nor -
mally vary from semester to semester. (Instructor determined) (This course is available to RIT 
degree-seeking undergraduate students.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3
FINC-499 Finance Co-op
One semester of paid work experience in finance (This class is restricted to undergraduate stu -
dents with at least 3rd year standing.)  CO OP, Credits 0 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
FINC-510 Financial Risk Management and Analysis
Students learn about various financial risk measurement and management issues.The focus 
of this course is on analyzing financial and other risks using widely used methods and dis -
cussing various ways of managing the risks. (Prerequisites: FINC-220 or equivalent course.)  
Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Spring)
FINC-559 Financing New Ventures
The course focuses on financial issues affecting an entrepreneur. The course emphasizes, iden -
tifies and follows the wealth creation cycle. The wealth creation cycle begins with an idea for 
a good, product or service, progresses to an initial company startup, passes through succes -
sive stages of growth, considers alternative approaches to resource financing, and ends with 
harvesting the wealth created through an initial public offering, merger or sale. Identification 
and valuation of business opportunities, how and from whom entrepreneurs raise funds, how 
financial contracts are structured to both manage risk and align incentives, and alternative 
approaches by which entrepreneurs identify exit strategies are reviewed. (This class is restricted 
to undergraduate students with at least 3rd year standing.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall, Spring)
FINC-580 Financial Analytics
Financial analytics is the use of business analytics methods and tools on financial data to 
solve problems such as investment and risk analysis, portfolio optimization, valuation, default 
modeling, and so on. This course introduces a contemporary tool (R or Python) and its use in 
solving these problems. In this hands-on course, students also learn about the field of fintech. 
(Prerequisites: FINC-220 or equivalent course.)  Lecture 3, Credits 3 (Fall)
FINC-599 Independent Study Finance
The student will work independently under the supervision of a faculty adviser. (Instructor 
approval) (This course requires permission of the Instructor to enroll.)  Ind Study 3, Credits 
3 (Fall, Spring, Summer)
Hospitality and Tourism Management
HSPT-101 The World of Hospitality
An introduction to the various sectors which comprise the hospitality industry including lodg -
ing, restaurants, events, beverages, theme parks and attractions, cruises, gaming, sports and 
entertainment, the travel trade, and private clubs. Students will be exposed to the operations, 
business models, career paths, and current trends in this experience-based class. This course 
will feature several demonstrations, site visits, and industry guest speakers in addition to lec -
tures and discussions.  Lecture 1, Credits 1 (Fall, Spring)